# FinalProject

For our final project, we were looking to build a predictive model to help determine when the International Space Station (ISS) will be visible over a city near you. We began by collecting data to track the movement of the ISS over an extended period of time to determine patterns in movement. Given that the ISS makes a full rotation around the earth every 90-93 minutes, we felt that 12 hours was ample time to determine patterns in movement. An API call was made to the ISS NOW open API. Latitude, Longitude, and current time were collected every 30 seconds for a period of 12 hours and stored. The data was then visualized using Tableau. Please explore our Tableau, Machine Learning, Live Tracker and Gallery for all things ISS and a more in-depth look at our project.
For our project we created a website that displays sighting opportunities of the International Space Station (ISS) in cities near where we live. Additionally, created a live tracker that shows where the ISS is at any given moment around the world, and allows for the users interactively explore the map

#How we did it

Live Tracker: We utilized the Fetch() API function to get the ISS lat/lon data into html directly. The data was fetched from an open API that contained more data than we needed. We had write code specify extracting the lat/lon data for plotting. Consideration had to be made due to the API having a refresh rate restriction of 1 second. The acquired lat/lon were plotted on a map using Leaflet. The life ISS marker was put on the map utilizing Leaflet Marker function, which was fed the live lat/lon data. Live Data and Time: We used Moment.js, a free and open source JavaScript library, to import a JavaScript date object directly into our html. For the live time we used JavaScript Data () to return a live clock instance of a single moment in time in a platform-independent format.
